The journalist and music critic Simon Heffer recently described the WPO as “*a first-class amateur orchestra*” and responding to our performance of George Lloyd’s fourth symphony and Korngold’s violin concerto, praised the WPO for “*a superb orchestral concert*”, highlighting that orchestras such as the WPO can be, and frequently are, adventurous in repertoire. In the more than fifty years since we were founded the WPO has built an impressive reputation as one of London’s leading community orchestras, bringing together players of the highest standard from a wide geographical area for top quality music-making.

The WPO’s bold repertoire has pushed the boundaries in all directions.  In May 1998 we celebrated our Silver Anniversary with Bartók’s *Duke Bluebeard’s Castle, *with soloists Sue Bickley and Peter Sidhom, for which we also commissioned Howard Jones’ *Thamesside Variations*, and for our Thirtieth Anniversary in November 2002 we performed Leonard Bernstein’s extravagant *SongFest*, for six soloists and large orchestra. Our fiftieth anniversary season 2022-2023 included Mahler’s *Das Lied von der Erde*, the London premiere of Philip White’s Cello Concerto and, astonishingly, only the third performance (the second in London) of the 5th Symphony by Ruth Gipps, neglected since 1983.

The WPO has maintained a strong thread of promoting less well known British music; we’ve played Granville Bantock’s *Fifine at the Fair*, Arthur Bliss’s *Checkmate* and *Things to Come*, George Lloyd’s Cello Concerto, Bax’s Sixth Symphony, both of Gerald Finzi’s concertos (for Clarinet and Cello), the London premiere of David Hackbridge Johnson’s acclaimed Ninth Symphony and at the instigation of our conductor Jonathan Butcher, much music of Samuel Coleridge Taylor. Our current season (2025-2026) includes Edward Gregson’s Tuba Concerto and Ruth Gipps’ Oboe Concerto.

We don’t neglect the central repertoire and have covered Shostakovich’s Symphonies nos. 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12, Stravinsky’s *The Rite of Spring*, Tippett’s *Ritual Dances*, all three of Elgar’s Symphonies*,* Mahler’s Symphonies nos. 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 and Vaughan Williams’ *Job – a masque for dancing*.

With the Islington Choral Society we presented a rare performance of Elgar’s *The Kingdom*, and with the Combined Hertfordshire Choirs, we have appeared four times at the Royal Albert Hall in aid of the British Council for the Prevention of Blindness, performing Britten’s *War Requiem* in 1994, Mahler’s *Symphony of a Thousand* in 1999, the Verdi *Requiem* in 2003, and Berlioz’ *Grande Messe des Morts* in 2007.

Looking to the future we have plans for *The Miraculous Mandarin* and *The Alpine Symphony*, but not on the same evening!

